This proccess includes creating a key pair:

You can use the 'keytool' utility, which comes with the JDK, to generate a key pair. 
(apply for this goal "IntelliJ IDEA's Terminal").

1. put you own command 'keytool -genkeypair -alias myalias -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 365 -keystore mykeystore.jks' in Terminal (without quates).

where params mean:

-alias myalias: An alias for your key entry in the keystore. (like key of a map, where value will be your generated self-signed sirtificate)
-keyalg RSA: The algorithm for the key (RSA in this case).
-keysize 2048: The size of the key. (Standard for most encryption needs, providing a good balance of security and performance)
-validity 365: The validity period of the key (in days).
-keystore mykeystore.jks: The name of the keystore file to create.

NOTICE: When you generate a key pair using 'keytool', the keystore will be created if it does not already exist!
	When you run this command, keytool will prompt you for various details like your name, organizational unit, 
	organization, city, state, and country code. It will also ask for a password for the keystore.

2. Now you can change these part in an application.yml file on your own params:

// 
server:
    port: 8443
    ssl:
      key-store: classpath:static/keystore.p12 # (put your path to where your self-signed certificate is situated)
      key-store-password: yourpassword
      key-store-type: PKCS12 # (default type from java 9)
      key-alias: youralias
      enabled: true
//

Congrats!
Your app is set in context security and you can send queries using https protocol.

OPTIONAL:

For all this commands you need to be in the same directoria, where 'mykeystore' is situated!

Export the Certificate:
'keytool -export -alias myalias -file mycert.crt -keystore mykeystore.jks'

Import the Certificate into Another Keystore:
'keytool -import -alias myalias -file mycert.crt -keystore anotherkeystore.jks'

Delete a key pair:
'keytool -delete -alias myalias -keystore mykeystore.p12'

Get list of a key pair:
'keytool -list -keystore mykeystore.p12'